It was one of the most violent confrontations in nearly six months of protests, with police surrounding the complex and arresting anyone who emerged. More than 1,100 have surrendered, had their details recorded, or were caught and arrested, including about 300 minors.

At the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the police seized about 4,000 gasoline bombs, 600 bottles of corrosive liquids and a great number of other offensive weapons before ending their 12-day siege of the campus. 

While students had occupied the school for about a week, clashes only escalated on Sunday after police implemented a high-pressure siege tactic. The protesters occupied the university in keeping with a larger plan to mobilise a citywide strike and class boycott. Violence flared as protesters barricaded themselves after fiery clashes with police. Protesters set a police vehicle on fire with Molotov cocktails and attacked two police officers with arrow and metal ball outside the campus. A police officer from the Force Media Liaison Cadre was shot with an arrow, another officer was hit by a marble on his mask but did not sustain injuries.

Hong Kong police sealed off the campus while protesters tried different means of escapes —abseiling down ropes to waiting vehicles or seeking exits through the sewers. Close to a hundred people climbed down ropes from a footbridge —  “None of them had any experience in abseiling, if they lost grip of the rope, they might fall to death,” A said.

Hong Kong Police Superintendent Louis Lau Siu-pong warned protesters if they attack the police with weapons including Molotov cocktails and arrows, the police would respond with all possible minimum force, which would include live rounds. Police drove armored cars equipped with long-range non-violent sonic weaponry for the first time.

More than 200 people escaped by sewage tunnels. “We kept reminding them of the marsh gas in the tunnel, but they said it does not matter, they are probably going to die anyway, they would rather try and die in there,” said Julian Law Wing Chung, the former political assistant to the Financial Secretary. B said they had no option they witnessed a group of first aiders being arrested. Those escaping via the sewage tunnels required support and coordination from people on the outside — including reconnaissance, pick-up drivers, and engineering professionals.

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University has been partially reopened. Extensive vandalism to campus facilities has severely compromised teaching, learning and research projects, said PolyU President Teng Jin-guang. It could take five to six months to finish the cleanup and repair work, Teng said, who described the university as the institution hardest hit by the city's political unrest. 
